All right.
Let's get to it.
We're going to start to discuss in the different variables we need to change inside of here to get our
map to display correctly so quick diagram.
So this is the kind of maze we want to allow the user to have now.
I want to not only allow the entire canvas to be rectangular but I want the number of cells in the horizontal
and vertical direction to be able to vary as well.
So we're going to introduce two new variables that are going to replace these single cells variable
that we have right now.
Remember cells right now tells us the number of cells we want to have both in the horizontal and vertical
direction but now I want to go to have a variable number in the horizontal and vertical instead.
So we're going to introduce a variable called cells horizontal
in this case it would be equal to four because I want to have one two three four cells going from left
to right.
We're also going to have cells vertical and in this case as you would guess one two three let's create
both those variables right now and we'll discuss exactly how we're going to actually use them.
It's a back over here.
I'm going to remove the cells variable and I'm going to create cells horizontal I'll start it off as
four and cells vertical and I'll start that off as three the next variable I want to point out to you
is unit length right here.
Remember that was supposed to be the length of one side of a given cell either the height or the width
because they were always identical now that we are allowing or a very different number of cells in the
horizontal and vertical direction and the actual screen space allocated to this can be variable as well.
We need to calculate the horizontal difference or distance of a cell differently from the vertical height
of a cell.
So we're going to introduce two other variables as well.
One will be unit length X and the other will be unit length y.
And as you would guess that's going to be the x direction or the width of a cell and the height of a
cell we can calculate both these by taking advantage of the height and width of the overall canvas and
dividing that by the number of cells on the horizontal and vertical direction tobacco over here.
I'm going to change the existing unit length to unit length y and then to calculate that we're going
to take the overall width of our canvas and divide by the number of cells in the horizontal direction.
So that is cells horizontal don't say cells horizontal like so then for the unit length in the y direction
I'll create unit length Y and that's going to be the overall height of the canvas divided by cells.
Vertical and that's pretty much it.
Okay so now that we've established the meaning of these different variables we're going to start to
go around this file and update all the different references we had previously to unit length or cells
to either use cells horizontal vertical or unit length X or Y Not refactor is going to be just a little
bit painful and I want to put all of it into one single video.
So how's right here.
Come back the next video and we'll do the entire refactor hopefully in one single go.